@ifset JA  @c ----------- v -----------  JA  -*- tab-width: 8 -*-
@node uganda.txt, , , 目次
@unnumbered Vim の配布条件と、あなたが支払ったお金の使い道について
@end ifset @c ----------- ^ -----------  JA  ----------- ^ -----------
@ifset EN
*uganda.txt*    For Vim version 8.0.  Last change: 2013 Jul 06


		  VIM REFERENCE MANUAL    by Bram Moolenaar
@end ifset
@ifset JA  @c ----------- v -----------  JA  ----------- v -----------
@verbatim
*uganda.txt*    For Vim バージョン 8.0.  Last change: 2013 Jul 06


		  VIMリファレンスマニュアル	  by Bram Moolenaar
@end verbatim
@end ifset @c ----------- ^ -----------  JA  ----------- ^ -----------


@ifset EN
			*uganda* *Uganda* *copying* *copyright* *license*
SUMMARY
								*iccf* *ICCF*
@end ifset
@ifset JA  @c ----------- v -----------  JA  ----------- v -----------
@anchor{uganda}
@anchor{Uganda}
@anchor{copying}
@anchor{copyright}
@anchor{license}
@anchor{iccf}
@anchor{ICCF}
@cindex uganda
@cindex Uganda
@cindex copying
@cindex copyright
@cindex license
@cindex iccf
@cindex ICCF
@unnumberedsec 要約
@end ifset @c ----------- ^ -----------  JA  ----------- ^ -----------
@ifset EN
Vim is Charityware.  You can use and copy it as much as you like, but you are
encouraged to make a donation for needy children in Uganda.  Please see |kcc|
below or visit the ICCF web site, available at these URLs:
@end ifset
@ifset JA  @c ----------- v -----------  JA  ----------- v -----------
Vim はチャリティウェアです。好きなだけコピーして使うことができますが、ウガンダの孤児院への寄付を推奨しています。下記の |@ref{kcc}| を参照するか、ICCF のウェブサイトを訪れてください。URL は以下のとおりです。
@end ifset @c ----------- ^ -----------  JA  ----------- ^ -----------

@ifset EN
	http://iccf-holland.org/
	http://www.vim.org/iccf/
	http://www.iccf.nl/
@end ifset
@ifset JA  @c ----------- v -----------  JA  ----------- v -----------
@multitable @columnfractions .1 .9
@item @url{http://iccf-holland.org/}
@item @url{http://www.vim.org/iccf/}
@item @url{http://www.iccf.nl/}
@end multitable
@end ifset @c ----------- ^ -----------  JA  ----------- ^ -----------

@ifset EN
You can also sponsor the development of Vim.  Vim sponsors can vote for
features.  See |sponsor|.  The money goes to Uganda anyway.
@end ifset
@ifset JA  @c ----------- v -----------  JA  ----------- v -----------
Vim の開発のスポンサーになることもできます。スポンサーは機能要望に投票できます。|@ref{sponsor}| をご覧ください。集めたお金はウガンダへ送金されます。
@end ifset @c ----------- ^ -----------  JA  ----------- ^ -----------

@ifset EN
The Open Publication License applies to the Vim documentation, see
|manual-copyright|.
@end ifset
@ifset JA  @c ----------- v -----------  JA  ----------- v -----------
Vim のドキュメントには Open Publication License が適用されています。|@ref{manual-copyright}| をご覧ください。
@end ifset @c ----------- ^ -----------  JA  ----------- ^ -----------

@ifset EN
=== begin of license ===

VIM LICENSE

I)  There are no restrictions on distributing unmodified copies of Vim except
    that they must include this license text.  You can also distribute
    unmodified parts of Vim, likewise unrestricted except that they must
    include this license text.  You are also allowed to include executables
    that you made from the unmodified Vim sources, plus your own usage
    examples and Vim scripts.

II) It is allowed to distribute a modified (or extended) version of Vim,
    including executables and/or source code, when the following four
    conditions are met:
    1) This license text must be included unmodified.
    2) The modified Vim must be distributed in one of the following five ways:
       a) If you make changes to Vim yourself, you must clearly describe in
	  the distribution how to contact you.  When the maintainer asks you
	  (in any way) for a copy of the modified Vim you distributed, you
	  must make your changes, including source code, available to the
	  maintainer without fee.  The maintainer reserves the right to
	  include your changes in the official version of Vim.  What the
	  maintainer will do with your changes and under what license they
	  will be distributed is negotiable.  If there has been no negotiation
	  then this license, or a later version, also applies to your changes.
	  The current maintainer is Bram Moolenaar <Bram@vim.org>.  If this
	  changes it will be announced in appropriate places (most likely
	  vim.sf.net, www.vim.org and/or comp.editors).  When it is completely
	  impossible to contact the maintainer, the obligation to send him
	  your changes ceases.  Once the maintainer has confirmed that he has
	  received your changes they will not have to be sent again.
       b) If you have received a modified Vim that was distributed as
	  mentioned under a) you are allowed to further distribute it
	  unmodified, as mentioned at I).  If you make additional changes the
	  text under a) applies to those changes.
       c) Provide all the changes, including source code, with every copy of
	  the modified Vim you distribute.  This may be done in the form of a
	  context diff.  You can choose what license to use for new code you
	  add.  The changes and their license must not restrict others from
	  making their own changes to the official version of Vim.
       d) When you have a modified Vim which includes changes as mentioned
	  under c), you can distribute it without the source code for the
	  changes if the following three conditions are met:
	  - The license that applies to the changes permits you to distribute
	    the changes to the Vim maintainer without fee or restriction, and
	    permits the Vim maintainer to include the changes in the official
	    version of Vim without fee or restriction.
	  - You keep the changes for at least three years after last
	    distributing the corresponding modified Vim.  When the maintainer
	    or someone who you distributed the modified Vim to asks you (in
	    any way) for the changes within this period, you must make them
	    available to him.
	  - You clearly describe in the distribution how to contact you.  This
	    contact information must remain valid for at least three years
	    after last distributing the corresponding modified Vim, or as long
	    as possible.
       e) When the GNU General Public License (GPL) applies to the changes,
	  you can distribute the modified Vim under the GNU GPL version 2 or
	  any later version.
    3) A message must be added, at least in the output of the ":version"
       command and in the intro screen, such that the user of the modified Vim
       is able to see that it was modified.  When distributing as mentioned
       under 2)e) adding the message is only required for as far as this does
       not conflict with the license used for the changes.
    4) The contact information as required under 2)a) and 2)d) must not be
       removed or changed, except that the person himself can make
       corrections.

III) If you distribute a modified version of Vim, you are encouraged to use
     the Vim license for your changes and make them available to the
     maintainer, including the source code.  The preferred way to do this is
     by e-mail or by uploading the files to a server and e-mailing the URL.
     If the number of changes is small (e.g., a modified Makefile) e-mailing a
     context diff will do.  The e-mail address to be used is
     <maintainer@vim.org>

IV)  It is not allowed to remove this license from the distribution of the Vim
     sources, parts of it or from a modified version.  You may use this
     license for previous Vim releases instead of the license that they came
     with, at your option.

=== end of license ===
@end ifset
@ifset JA  @c ----------- v -----------  JA  ----------- v -----------

=== ライセンス日本語訳 ここから ===

@quotation
@{訳注: この日本語訳は参考のために示すものであり、法的効力を持ちません。必ず原文(@url{http://vimdoc.sourceforge.net/htmldoc/uganda.html#license})を参照してください。@}
@end quotation
@unnumberedsubsec VIM ライセンス

@itemize @bullet
@item
I)  Vim のコピーを変更せずに配布することは、このライセンス文を含めなければならないこと以外に制限されません。また、変更を加えていない Vim の一部分だけを配布することも同様に、このライセンス文を含めなければならないこと以外に制限されません。配布物には、変更を加えていない Vim のソースから作成した実行可能ファイルや、あなた独自の説明書や Vim scriptを含めることもできます。

@item
II) 以下の 4 つの条件を満たす場合に限り、Vim に変更 (または拡張) を加えた物を、実行可能ファイルやソースコードも含めて配布することが認められています:

@itemize @bullet
@item
1) このライセンス文を変更せずに配布物に含めること。

@item
2) 変更された Vim は以下の 5 つの方法のどれかで配布しなければならない。

@itemize @bullet
@item
a) Vim に独自の変更を加えた場合、配布物にあなたの連絡先を明確に示してください。メンテナーがあなたが配布した変更された Vim のコピーについて (何かを) 尋ねたときに、あなたが加えた変更を、ソースコードも含めて、無償で、メンテナーが利用できるようにしなければなりません。メンテナーは公式なバージョンの Vim にあなたの変更を取り込むための権利を保有します。メンテナーがあなたの変更をどのようにし、どういったライセンスで配布するかを交渉することができます。交渉が行われなければ、このライセンス、もしくはこれの新しいバージョンのライセンスがあなたの変更に適用されます。現在のメンテナーは Bram Moolenaar <Bram@@vim.org> です。これが変更されるときは適切な場所で告知されます(おそらく vim.sf.net や www.vim.org そして comp.editors)。もし本当にメンテナーと連絡が取れない場合には、あなたの変更を提出する義務はありません。一旦、メンテナーがあなたの変更を受け取ったことを確認できたなら、再度提出する必要はありません。

@item
b) a) に基づいて配布された変更された Vim を受け取った場合、それを変更することなしに、I) に基づいて再配布できます。さらなる変更を加えた場合、その変更には a) が適用されます。

@item
c) 変更された Vim の配布物全てに、ソースコードも含めて、全ての変更点を提供してください。これは context diff の形式で行うことができます。あなたは、あなたが加えた新しいコードに対してどのライセンスを適用するか選択できます。その変更とライセンスは、公式なバージョンの Vim に取り込むことで、他のものを制限してはいけません。

@item
d) c) に基づいて配布された変更された Vim があるとき、次の条件を満たす場合に限り、そのソースコードを含めずに配布することができます:

@itemize @minus
@item
その変更に適用されているライセンスが、その変更を無償で制限なしに Vim のメンテナーに提供することを認め、そして、Vim のメンテナーがその変更を公式なバージョンの Vim に取り込むことを無償で制限なしに認めている。

@item
その変更された Vim の変更点を、最後に配布したときから少なくとも 3 年は保持してください。その期間内に、メンテナーや誰かがその変更について (何かを) 尋ねた場合、彼らがその変更を利用できるようにしなければなりません。

@item
その配布物にあなたの連絡先を明確に示してください。その連絡方法は、その変更された Vim に相当する配布物が最後に提供されてから、少なくとも 3 年、そして可能な限り長く、有効でなければなりません。
@end itemize

@item
e) その変更に GNU General Public License (GPL) が適用されている場合、GNU GPL バージョン 2、またはそれより新しいバージョンに基づいて、その変更された Vim を配布することができます。
@end itemize

@item
3) その変更された Vim を利用しているユーザーが、それが変更されていると確認できるように、少なくとも、":version" コマンドや起動時の挨拶メッセージに、変更されている旨を表示しなければなりません。その配布物が 2)e) によるものである場合、そのライセンスが変更前のものと矛盾していない、という旨のメッセージだけが必要です。

@item
4) 2)a) と 2)d) により要求されている連絡方法を、その本人が訂正する以外に、変更したり削除してはいけません。
@end itemize

@item
III) 変更された Vim を配布する場合、あなたの変更に Vim のライセンスを使い、その変更を、ソースコードも含めて、メンテナーが利用できるようにすることが奨励されています。そのためには電子メールで送るか、サーバーにアップロードしてその URL を電子メールで知らせるのが望ましいです。少しの変更なら (例えば Makefile の変更など) context diff を電子メールで送るのがいいでしょう。電子メールの送り先は <maintainer@@vim.org> です。

@item
IV)  Vim のソースや、その一部、または変更された Vim、の配布物からこのライセンスを削除することは認められていません。望むなら、以前の Vim リリースに、その時点のライセンスではなく、このライセンスを適用することができます。
@end itemize

=== ライセンス日本語訳 ここまで ===
@end ifset @c ----------- ^ -----------  JA  ----------- ^ -----------
@ifset EN
Note:

- If you are happy with Vim, please express that by reading the rest of this
  file and consider helping needy children in Uganda.
@end ifset
@ifset JA  @c ----------- v -----------  JA  ----------- v -----------
@quotation
@strong{Note:} @*
@itemize @bullet
@item Vim に満足していただけたのなら、このファイルをさらに読み進め、ウガンダの貧しい子供たちへの援助を検討してください。
@end ifset @c ----------- ^ -----------  JA  ----------- ^ -----------

@ifset EN
- If you want to support further Vim development consider becoming a
  |sponsor|.  The money goes to Uganda anyway.
@end ifset
@ifset JA  @c ----------- v -----------  JA  ----------- v -----------
@item Vim の開発に協力したいとお考えなら、スポンサーになることを検討してください |@ref{sponsor}|。集めたお金はウガンダへ送金されます。
@end ifset @c ----------- ^ -----------  JA  ----------- ^ -----------

@ifset EN
- According to Richard Stallman the Vim license is GNU GPL compatible.
  A few minor changes have been made since he checked it, but that should not
  make a difference.
@end ifset
@ifset JA  @c ----------- v -----------  JA  ----------- v -----------
@item Richard Stallman によれば Vim のライセンスは GNU GPL 互換です。彼がそれを確認してから多少の変更が加えられましたが、違いはないでしょう。
@end ifset @c ----------- ^ -----------  JA  ----------- ^ -----------

@ifset EN
- If you link Vim with a library that goes under the GNU GPL, this limits
  further distribution to the GNU GPL.  Also when you didn't actually change
  anything in Vim.
@end ifset
@ifset JA  @c ----------- v -----------  JA  ----------- v -----------
@item Vim に GNU GPL のライブラリをリンクした場合、配布形態が GNU GPL に制限されます。あなたが Vim に何の変更も加えていなくてもです。
@end ifset @c ----------- ^ -----------  JA  ----------- ^ -----------

@ifset EN
- Once a change is included that goes under the GNU GPL, this forces all
  further changes to also be made under the GNU GPL or a compatible license.
@end ifset
@ifset JA  @c ----------- v -----------  JA  ----------- v -----------
@item 一度でも GNU GPL を含む変更を加えた場合、それ以降の変更は GNU GPL 互換のライセンスを使わなければいけません。
@end ifset @c ----------- ^ -----------  JA  ----------- ^ -----------

@ifset EN
- If you distribute a modified version of Vim, you can include your name and
  contact information with the "--with-modified-by" configure argument or the
  MODIFIED_BY define.
@end ifset
@ifset JA  @c ----------- v -----------  JA  ----------- v -----------
@item Vim に改良を加えたバージョンを配布するときは、configure の引数に "--with-modified-by" を指定するか MODIFIED_BY を定義して、あなたの名前を連絡先に含めることができます。
@end itemize
@end quotation
@end ifset @c ----------- ^ -----------  JA  ----------- ^ -----------

@ifset EN
==============================================================================
Kibaale Children's Centre		*kcc* *Kibaale*  *charity*
@end ifset
@ifset JA  @c ----------- v -----------  JA  ----------- v -----------
@anchor{kcc}
@anchor{Kibaale}
@anchor{charity}
@cindex kcc
@cindex Kibaale
@cindex charity
@unnumberedsec Kibaale Children's Centre
@end ifset @c ----------- ^ -----------  JA  ----------- ^ -----------

@ifset EN
Kibaale Children's Centre (KCC) is located in Kibaale, a small town in the
south of Uganda, near Tanzania, in East Africa.  The area is known as Rakai
District.  The population is mostly farmers.  Although people are poor, there
is enough food.  But this district is suffering from AIDS more than any other
part of the world.  Some say that it started there.  Estimations are that 10
to 30% of the Ugandans are infected with HIV.  Because parents die, there are
many orphans.  In this district about 60,000 children have lost one or both
parents, out of a population of 350,000.  And this is still continuing.
@end ifset
@ifset JA  @c ----------- v -----------  JA  ----------- v -----------
Kibaale Children's Centre (KCC) はウガンダの南部にある小さな町 Kibaale にあります。ウガンダは東アフリカのタンザニアの近くに位置しています。その地域は Rakai 地区として知られています。人口の大部分は農民で、貧乏ではありますが食料は十分にあります。しかしこの地域は世界のほかの場所よりも AIDS で苦しんでいます。AIDS はここから始まったという人もいます。ウガンダ人の 10-30% が HIV に感染していると推定されています。両親が死んでしまうので孤児がたくさんいます。この地域では人口 350,000 人のうちの 60,000 人の子供が親をどちらか、または両方をなくしており、その数は増え続けています。
@end ifset @c ----------- ^ -----------  JA  ----------- ^ -----------

@ifset EN
The children need a lot of help.  The KCC is working hard to provide the needy
with food, medical care and education.  Food and medical care to keep them
healthy now, and education so that they can take care of themselves in the
future.  KCC works on a Christian base, but help is given to children of any
religion.
@end ifset
@ifset JA  @c ----------- v -----------  JA  ----------- v -----------
子供たちは多くの援助を必要としています。KCC は食料、医療、教育を彼らに提供するために懸命に働いています。食料と医療は彼らの健康を保つために、そして教育は彼らの将来を手助けするためです。KCC はキリスト教の教えに基づいて活動していますが、子供たちの宗教に関わらず援助が行われています。
@end ifset @c ----------- ^ -----------  JA  ----------- ^ -----------

@ifset EN
The key to solving the problems in this area is education.  This has been
neglected in the past years with president Idi Amin and the following civil
wars.  Now that the government is stable again, the children and parents have
to learn how to take care of themselves and how to avoid infections.  There is
also help for people who are ill and hungry, but the primary goal is to
prevent people from getting ill and to teach them how to grow healthy food.
@end ifset
@ifset JA  @c ----------- v -----------  JA  ----------- v -----------
この地域の問題を解決する鍵は教育です。過去数年にわたる Idi Amin 大統領の時代とそれに続く市民戦争により、教育は軽視されてきました。今は政府が再び安定しましたし、子供と親は自分自身の健康をどうやって保つか、そしてどうすれば感染を避けられるかを学ぶ必要があります。病気にかかっている人々や空腹を抱えている人々への援助もなされていますが、第一の目標は人々を病気から遠ざけることであり、そして体によい食料を育てる方法を彼らに教えることです。
@end ifset @c ----------- ^ -----------  JA  ----------- ^ -----------

@ifset EN
Most of the orphans are living in an extended family.  An uncle or older
sister is taking care of them.  Because these families are big and the income
(if any) is low, a child is lucky if it gets healthy food.  Clothes, medical
care and schooling is beyond its reach.  To help these needy children, a
sponsorship program was put into place.  A child can be financially adopted.
For a few dollars a month KCC sees to it that the child gets indispensable
items, is healthy, goes to school and KCC takes care of anything else that
needs to be done for the child and the family that supports it.
@end ifset
@ifset JA  @c ----------- v -----------  JA  ----------- v -----------
ほとんどの孤児は拡大家族の中で生活しています。叔父や姉が彼らの世話をしています。このような家庭は大家族でありながら収入は少ないので、子供が体によい食料を得られるのは希です。まして衣類、医療、学校に通うことなどは無理なのです。このような貧しい子供たちを助けるために資金援助制度が設けられました。子供は経済的に養子になるのです。KCC は、月に数ドルのお金で、子供たちに必要なもの、健康や学校に通うことなどを手配します。また KCC はその他にも、子供とその世話をしている家族が必要とするものの面倒を見ています。
@end ifset @c ----------- ^ -----------  JA  ----------- ^ -----------

@ifset EN
Besides helping the child directly, the environment where the child grows up
needs to be improved.  KCC helps schools to improve their teaching methods.
There is a demonstration school at the centre and teacher trainings are given.
Health workers are being trained, hygiene education is carried out and
households are stimulated to build a proper latrine.  I helped setting up a
production site for cement slabs.  These are used to build a good latrine.
They are sold below cost price.
@end ifset
@ifset JA  @c ----------- v -----------  JA  ----------- v -----------
子供を直接援助するほかに、子供が育つ環境を改善する必要があります。KCC は学校の教育方法が改善されるよう援助を行っています。センターには実地教育をする学校 (demonstration school) があり、教師を指導しています。保健に従事する人の育成もされており、衛生教育も行われています。そして、各家庭が適切なトイレを作れるように支援しています。私はセメントの厚い板を作る現場を設立する手伝いをしました。その板はよいトイレを作るのに使われ、そしてコスト以下の値段で売られています。
@end ifset @c ----------- ^ -----------  JA  ----------- ^ -----------

@ifset EN
There is a small clinic at the project, which provides children and their
family with medical help.  When needed, transport to a hospital is offered.
Immunization programs are carried out and help is provided when an epidemic is
breaking out (measles and cholera have been a problem).
@end ifset
@ifset JA  @c ----------- v -----------  JA  ----------- v -----------
プロジェクトには小さな診療所があり、子供たちとその家族が医療を受けられるようにしています。そして必要があれば病院へ移ることを申し出ます。病気の予防プログラムが実行されており、伝染病 (風疹とコレラは悩みの種です) が発生した場合は援助が行われます。
@end ifset @c ----------- ^ -----------  JA  ----------- ^ -----------
@ifset EN
							*donate*
Summer 1994 to summer 1995 I spent a whole year at the centre, working as a
volunteer.  I have helped to expand the centre and worked in the area of water
and sanitation.  I learned that the help that the KCC provides really helps.
When I came back to Holland, I wanted to continue supporting KCC.  To do this
I'm raising funds and organizing the sponsorship program.  Please consider one
of these possibilities:
@end ifset
@ifset JA  @c ----------- v -----------  JA  ----------- v -----------
@anchor{donate}
@cindex donate
@cindex 寄付
私は 1994 年の夏から 1995 年の夏までの丸1年間をボランティアとしてセンターで過ごしました。センターを拡大するための手助けを行い、そして飲料水の改善を行う地区と衛生設備の改善を行う地区で働いていました。そして KCC が提供している援助が本当に役に立っていることを学んできました。オランダへ戻ったとき、KCC のサポートを続けたいと思いました。それを実行するために私は基金を設立し、そしてスポンサーシップ・プログラムを組織化しました。次のどれかが可能かどうか検討してみてください:
@end ifset @c ----------- ^ -----------  JA  ----------- ^ -----------

@ifset EN
1.  Sponsor a child in primary school: 17 euro a month (or more).
2.  Sponsor a child in secondary school: 25 euro a month (or more).
3.  Sponsor the clinic: Any amount a month or quarter
4.  A one-time donation
@end ifset
@ifset JA  @c ----------- v -----------  JA  ----------- v -----------
@enumerate
@item 1 人の小学生のスポンサーになる: 月に 17 ユーロ(か、もっと)
@item 1 人の中学生のスポンサーになる: 月に 25 ユーロ(か、もっと)
@item 診療所のスポンサーになる: 月もしくは 4 半期ごとにいくらでも
@item 1 度に限定した寄付(A one-time donation)
@end enumerate
@end ifset @c ----------- ^ -----------  JA  ----------- ^ -----------

@ifset EN
Compared with other organizations that do child sponsorship the amounts are
very low.  This is because the money goes directly to the centre.  Less than
5% is used for administration.  This is possible because this is a small
organization that works with volunteers.  If you would like to sponsor a
child, you should have the intention to do this for at least one year.
@end ifset
@ifset JA  @c ----------- v -----------  JA  ----------- v -----------
他の組織に比べると子供のスポンサーシップの料金はかなり低いです。これはお金が直接センターに届くようになっているからです。5% 以下しか運営には使われていません。それが可能なのはこの組織が小さく、そしてボランティアで運営されているからです。子供のスポンサーになるのなら、少なくとも1年は続ける心構えを持ってください。
@end ifset @c ----------- ^ -----------  JA  ----------- ^ -----------

@ifset EN
How do you know that the money will be spent right?  First of all you have my
personal guarantee as the author of Vim.  I trust the people that are working
at the centre, I know them personally.  Furthermore, the centre has been
co-sponsored and inspected by World Vision, Save the Children Fund and is now
under the supervision of Pacific Academy Outreach Society.  The centre is
visited about once a year to check the progress (at our own cost).  I have
visited the centre myself many times, starting in 1993.  The visit reports are
on the ICCF web site.
@end ifset
@ifset JA  @c ----------- v -----------  JA  ----------- v -----------
しかしお金が適切に使われていることを信用できるでしょうか? まず、私は Vim の作者として個人的に信用されています。そして私はセンターで働いている人々を信用していますし、彼らを個人的に知ってもいます。さらには、このセンターはかつては WorldVision と Save the Children Fund によって共同運営・監督され、今は PacificAcademy Outreach Society の監督下にあります。センターは約 1 年に 1 回は視察を受けて進行をチェックしてもらっています (自費で)。私自身 1993 年から何度も視察をしています。ICCF のウェブサイトに視察レポートがあります。
@end ifset @c ----------- ^ -----------  JA  ----------- ^ -----------

@ifset EN
If you have any further questions, send me e-mail: <Bram@vim.org>.
@end ifset
@ifset JA  @c ----------- v -----------  JA  ----------- v -----------
もし他に質問がありましたら、私にメールを送ってください: <@email{Bram@@vim.org}>
@end ifset @c ----------- ^ -----------  JA  ----------- ^ -----------

@ifset EN
The address of the centre is:
			Kibaale Children's Centre
			p.o. box 1658
			Masaka, Uganda, East Africa
@end ifset
@ifset JA  @c ----------- v -----------  JA  ----------- v -----------
@table @asis
@item センターの住所:
			Kibaale Children's Centre @*
			p.o. box 1658 @*
			Masaka, Uganda, East Africa @*
@end table
@end ifset @c ----------- ^ -----------  JA  ----------- ^ -----------

@ifset EN
Sending money:						*iccf-donations*

Check the ICCF web site for the latest information!  See |iccf| for the URL.
@end ifset
@ifset JA  @c ----------- v -----------  JA  ----------- v -----------
@anchor{iccf-donations}
@cindex iccf-donations
送金:

最新の情報は ICCF のウェブサイトをご覧ください。ICCF の URL は |@ref{iccf}| をご覧ください。
@end ifset @c ----------- ^ -----------  JA  ----------- ^ -----------


@ifset EN
USA:		The methods mentioned below can be used.
		Sending a check to the Nehemiah Group Outreach Society (NGOS)
		is no longer possible, unfortunately. We are looking for
		another way to get you an IRS tax receipt. 
		For sponsoring a child contact KCF in Canada (see below). US
		checks can be sent to them to lower banking costs.
@end ifset
@ifset JA  @c ----------- v -----------  JA  ----------- v -----------
@table @asis
@item アメリカ:
下記で説明する方法が使えます。残念ながら、Nehemiah Group Outreach Society (NGOS) に小切手を送る方法はもう使えません。国税庁 (IRS) の税領収書を得られる他の方法を今探しています。子供のスポンサーになるにはカナダの KCF (下記参照) に連絡してください。銀行の手数料を節約するため、アメリカの小切手を彼らに送ることができます。
@end table
@end ifset @c ----------- ^ -----------  JA  ----------- ^ -----------

@ifset EN
Canada:		Contact Kibaale Children's Fund (KCF) in Surrey, Canada.  They
		take care of the Canadian sponsors for the children in
		Kibaale.  KCF forwards 100% of the money to the project in
		Uganda.  You can send them a one time donation directly.
		Please send me a note so that I know what has been donated
		because of Vim.  Ask KCF for information about sponsorship.
			Kibaale Children's Fund c/o Pacific Academy
			10238-168 Street
			Surrey, B.C. V4N 1Z4
			Canada
			Phone: 604-581-5353
		If you make a donation to Kibaale Children's Fund (KCF) you
		will receive a tax receipt which can be submitted with your
		tax return.
@end ifset
@ifset JA  @c ----------- v -----------  JA  ----------- v -----------
@table @asis
@item カナダ:
カナダのSurreyにあるKibaale Children's Fund(KCF)に連絡してください。彼らはKibaaleの子供たちのために、カナダのスポンサーを世話しています。KCF が集めたお金は100%、ウガンダのプロジェクトに送金されます。1度に限定した寄付の場合は、そこに直接送ることができます。Vimによってどのくらい寄付されているか知りたいので、よろしければ、送金したことを私に知らせてください。スポンサーシップについては KCF に尋ねてください。@*@*
Kibaale Children's Fund c/o Pacific Academy @*
10238-168 Street @*
Surrey, B.C. V4N 1Z4International Child Care Fund @*
Phone: 604-581-5353 @*@*
Kibaale Children's Fund (KCF) に寄付をすると、税領収書を受け取れるので、確定申告で提出できます。
@end table
@end ifset @c ----------- ^ -----------  JA  ----------- ^ -----------

@ifset EN
Holland:	Transfer to the account of "Stichting ICCF Holland" in Lisse.
		This will allow for tax deduction if you live in Holland.
			Postbank, nr. 4548774
			IBAN: NL95 INGB 0004 5487 74
@end ifset
@ifset JA  @c ----------- v -----------  JA  ----------- v -----------
@table @asis
@item オランダ:
Lisse の "Stichting ICCF Holland" の口座に振り替えてください。オランダ在住の方は税金が控除されます。@*@*
Postbank, nr. 4548774 @*
IBAN: NL95 INGB 0004 5487 74
@end table
@end ifset @c ----------- ^ -----------  JA  ----------- ^ -----------

@ifset EN
Germany:	It is possible to make donations that allow for a tax return.
		Check the ICCF web site for the latest information:
			http://iccf-holland.org/germany.html
@end ifset
@ifset JA  @c ----------- v -----------  JA  ----------- v -----------
@table @asis
@item ドイツ:
寄付により、確定申告で税金が控除されます。最新の情報は ICCF のウェブサイトを御覧下さい: @*@*
@url{http://iccf-holland.org/germany.html}
@end table
@end ifset @c ----------- ^ -----------  JA  ----------- ^ -----------

@ifset EN
World:		Use a postal money order.  That should be possible from any
		country, mostly from the post office.  Use this name (which is
		in my passport): "Abraham Moolenaar".  Use Euro for the
		currency if possible.
@end ifset
@ifset JA  @c ----------- v -----------  JA  ----------- v -----------
@table @asis
@item 世界:
郵便為替を使ってください。ほとんどの国で、たいていは郵便局から送れます。この名前を使ってください (これは私のパスポートのものです): "Abraham Moolenaar"。可能なら通貨はユーロにしてください。
@end table
@end ifset @c ----------- ^ -----------  JA  ----------- ^ -----------

@ifset EN
Europe:		Use a bank transfer if possible.  Your bank should have a form
		that you can use for this.  See "Others" below for the swift
		code and IBAN number.
		Any other method should work.  Ask for information about
		sponsorship.
@end ifset
@ifset JA  @c ----------- v -----------  JA  ----------- v -----------
@table @asis
@item ヨーロッパ:
可能なら銀行振り込みを使ってください。あなたの銀行はそのための方法を用意しているはずです。swift code と IBAN number は下記の"その他"の項を参照してください。他の方法も使えると思います。スポンサーシップについてはお問い合わせください。
@end table
@end ifset @c ----------- ^ -----------  JA  ----------- ^ -----------

@ifset EN
Credit Card:	You can use PayPal to send money with a Credit card.  This is
		the most widely used Internet based payment system.  It's
		really simple to use.  Use this link to find more info:
		    https://www.paypal.com/en_US/mrb/pal=XAC62PML3GF8Q
		The e-mail address for sending the money to is:
		    Bram@iccf-holland.org
		For amounts above 400 Euro ($500) sending a check is
		preferred.
@end ifset
@ifset JA  @c ----------- v -----------  JA  ----------- v -----------
@table @asis
@item クレジットカード:
クレジットカードでの送金には PayPal が使えます。これはインターネットでの決算で最も広く使われているシステムです。これは本当に簡単です。詳細はこのリンク先を見てください: @*@*
@url{https://www.paypal.com/en_US/mrb/pal=XAC62PML3GF8Q} @*@*
送金のための e-mail アドレスは: @*@*
@email{Bram@@iccf-holland.org} @*@*
400 ユーロ (500ドル) より大きな送金は、小切手で送るようにしてください。
@end table
@end ifset @c ----------- ^ -----------  JA  ----------- ^ -----------

@ifset EN
Others:		Transfer to one of these accounts if possible:
		    Postbank, account 4548774
				Swift code: INGB NL 2A
				IBAN: NL95 INGB 0004 5487 74
			under the name "stichting ICCF Holland", Lisse
		    If that doesn't work:
		    Rabobank Lisse, account 3765.05.117
				Swift code: RABO NL 2U
			under the name "Bram Moolenaar", Lisse
		Otherwise, send a check in euro or US dollars to the address
		below.  Minimal amount: $70 (my bank does not accept smaller
		amounts for foreign check, sorry)
@end ifset
@ifset JA  @c ----------- v -----------  JA  ----------- v -----------
@table @asis
@item その他: 可能であれば次のうちのどれかの口座に振り替えてください:
Postbank, account 4548774 @*
Swift code: INGB NL 2A @*
IBAN: NL95 INGB 0004 5487 74 @*
under the name "stichting ICCF Holland", Lisse @*@*
これがうまく行かなければ: @*@*
Rabobank Lisse, account 3765.05.117 @*
Swift code: RABO NL 2U @*
under the name "Bram Moolenaar", Lisse @*@*
それ以外は、ユーロか US ドルの小切手を下記の住所に送ってください。最小の金額は 70 ドルです(私が利用している銀行はそれ以下の海外からの小切手は受け付けないのです、ごめんなさい)。
@end table
@end ifset @c ----------- ^ -----------  JA  ----------- ^ -----------

@ifset EN
Address to send checks to:
			Bram Moolenaar
			Finsterruetihof 1
			8134 Adliswil
			Switzerland
@end ifset
@ifset JA  @c ----------- v -----------  JA  ----------- v -----------
@table @asis
@item 小切手の送り先:
Bram Moolenaar @*
Finsterruetihof 1 @*
8134 Adliswil @*
Switzerland
@end table
@end ifset @c ----------- ^ -----------  JA  ----------- ^ -----------

@ifset EN
This address is expected to be valid for a long time.
@end ifset
@ifset JA  @c ----------- v -----------  JA  ----------- v -----------
この住所は当分先まで使えると思います。
@end ifset @c ----------- ^ -----------  JA  ----------- ^ -----------

@ifset EN
 vim:tw=78:ts=8:ft=help:norl:
@end ifset
